when you're building applications in node,
One of the most common task that you're going to have to do is integrate with another AP I
integrate with some third party.
When tasked with this,
many developers will need to go to that third party and look for a no Js library that they
provide or look for a no Js or NPM library that someone else has written for interacting
with that ap I.
But there is another way to integrate.
You can simply craft http messages or https messages and send them off to the third party,
a p I.
In this lecture,
I'm going to show you how to do that for this app.
We want to integrate with twilio.
Twilio,
if you haven't heard of it,
allows you to provisioned and manipulate phone numbers in order to take and receive calls
or taken receive SMS messages or video calls anything like that.
So we're going to use Twilio to send the SMS alerts to our users,
telling them if their checks are up or down.
And so before we do that full integration,
we'd like to write a little library that integrates with twilio and allows us to send an
SMS message.
So I'm gonna go to the helpers file.
I'm gonna start crafting a little function that will let us send in SMS via twilio.
So I'm gonna call this helpers dot send twilio SMS.
It is going to be a function that takes in a phone number that we need to send to the
message that we want to send,
which would be a string and a call back.
The first thing that the functions going to want to do is validate the parameters.
So we're going to say that the phone number should be a stream and it should have the
length of 10 core default to force the message.
It should also be a string with a length greater than zero and the length smaller than or
equal to 1600.
Cause that's the maximum characters we can send through an SMS on Giulio.
And before I forget,
this is a little typo there.
Yeah,
All right,
so we have the two parameters that would have come in,
and we want to say that if phone and message continue on otherwise we're gonna call that
the air using the air back pattern giving in parameters,
we're missing or invalid.
But if everything was fine,
we want to configure the request payload that we're going to send it.
Twilio.
Since this course is not about writing twilio APS,
I'm not going to go through the twilio docks in detail.
I'll just briefly mention how this integration works.
We're going to send a payload to TWILIO.
We're gonna have to send it to a P.
I doubt twilio dot com as a post,
and we're going to send it to and accounts slash messages and point with certain headers,
and that will automatically send an SMS message to the number that we specified.
So when crafting this payload,
we're going to say that payload equals from it's gonna equal config twilio from phone.
So we're going to add an object to our config called twilio,
and it's going to have a key on it called from phone,
which is the sender phone that we are using.
We want to say to is going to be whatever number is provided,
plus the country code.
We're going to see if the body is whatever the messages.
So this payload needs to get sent to Tokyo.
So now we want to string if I the payload and then configure the request details.
So we are going to use the query string module to string.
If I this payload as opposed to Jason String defying,
which means above,
we're going to need to require query string.
What?
We're up here.
We're going to have to send a request to an https endpoint,
so we know that we're going to need the https module.
The HDP in https modules are pretty versatile.
Not only do they contain functions that let you start http or https server,
but they also contain functions that let you craft and send off http or https requests.
So since we need to talk to an https endpoint,
we're going to use the HDP s module,
which is the same module that we use when we were creating our https server.
Now we need to create the request details,
which contains all the information about the HDP s request that we are about to send off.
So the protocol,
as I mentioned,
is going to be https,
the host name.
It's going to be a P.
I got twilio dot com.
The method is going to be capital post the path is going to be this long twilio path,
which is just how their a p I works.
2010 04 01 That is a a p I version of theirs accounts slash Then we're gonna in this string
and put in a Tulio account I d So twilio count s I d And then start the string back up with
another slash and then messages.
Jason.
Okay,
Now we need to include an authentication header for basic http authentication So that is
going to be config.
That twilio dot account s i d as it was a moment ago than Colin.
And then config twilio dot off token.
So now you can see that it is twilio object we're creating is gonna have to have at least
the parameters If from phone and account s I d and an off token now,
we're going to explicitly state the other headers that we need to declare.
We need to say that content type is going to be application slash x www form.
You're out encoded.
This is not a Jason ap,
I This is a more traditional a p I.
And so we're going to need to send it as this contact content type instead of a Jason
content type and rather than Jason String defying it.
That is why we query,
string string,
fight it because we need to make it more like a normal foreign being posted.
Lastly,
the content link something we need to declare explicitly.
And to get the length we're going to use the buffer module,
which is not something that you need to declare as a dependency of the talk.
It's just a global available to you.
We're gonna say that buffer bite,
capital length,
string payload.
So this function is going to get the bite length of this string ified payload that we query
string,
string ified.
And that's just a function available on the buffer module,
which is why we're invoking buffer.
So that is the entire request details object.
Now we need to create a request and then send it off.
So we're going to Winstanley.
She ate the request object by declaring it that bar request equals https.
That module we required dot request,
and then we're gonna pass it in the request details.
So we string if I to pay load.
We created a bunch of https request details.
Now reusing https dot Request to actually send off all those details,
and it's going to pass us back a response object with in the response when the response
comes back,
we want to grab the status of the scent request.
They don't tell us if it was successful or not.
So the status is going to equal response rez dot status coat.
Now we want to call that to our original caller successfully.
If the request went so we want to say if status equals 200 for status equals two a one,
either one is fine.
We want to call back false calling back false because we're using the air back pattern and
there is no air.
Otherwise,
we want to call back status code returned waas and then just tell them whatever it waas All
right,
so that is three request object,
and that is what is going to happen when the request comes back.
But now we actually need to send the request off right before we do that,
we need to do to other things we need to bind to an error event in case an air happens then
we need to add the payload string payload.
Then we need to actually stand off the request.
So bind to the air event so it doesn't get thrown.
We don't want any air toe killed the thread.
So we're going to say that request on air.
So when the request that we created emits an event called Air or if it admits an event
called error,
we want to invoke this function,
which will simply call back the air to our request.
Now,
we want to add the payload to the request,
which is done in a separate step.
So we're gonna say request wreck dot right,
and then add the string payload.
All right.
Lastly,
we want to end the request and ending the request is the same as sending it off.
So we want to say wreck.
And once we do that,
once the application hits this point is actually going to send the request off.
And when the request comes back,
it's going to involve what happens inside of there.
So the callback could either get called because an air happened or because it came back
with a status code.
Now,
before this works,
we to go to our config file and add all those twilio parameters that we mentioned.
So we're going to say that twilio is itself an object,
and inside of that,
it has account s i D.
It has off token,
and it has from phone.
Now,
there are two ways that you can get the values that you want to put in here.
You could sign up for a twilio account and they will provide you staging tokens that you
can use without having to pay for anything.
And they will give you a staging account s i d.
As staging off token and they'll let you choose which from phone you want to use.
Or you can just go into the get hub that is linked on this lecture.
And look at the code that we've been writing and the account s I D.
And off token will be provided there,
and you can just copy it in.
Copying it in is exactly what I'm going to do.
And there we go.
That came straight from our get hub.
And you're welcome to use these as well.
Now I'm going to modify our index dot Js to invoke this helper so that we can see that the
scent twilio SMS function that we just wrote actually works.
So I'm gonna go back to Index and right at the top.
Que rid of this?
I'm going to say Helper,
that sent Tulio SMS.
Now I'm going to just make up a number here.
4151234567 And it should receive the message.
Hello?
Then we're gonna log out the air.
All right,
so let's start this up,
OK?
Looks like we have a little syntax error when we're setting the content length.
We should not have terminated it with a semi colon to go back to index and try this again.
It looks like I made another typo when I was crafting this,
and that is that the http s must have a colon on it.
Similarly,
if you were doing the HDP protocol,
you need to use a coping as well.
Alright,
let's try again.
The status code that we got back was 400 which likely meant that this phone every reused
was not valid.
So let's use a one that is more likely to be riel that say,
uh,
reference that old 1980 song 8375309 Try that.
All right,
this was the air False.
So had we been using real production twilio credentials,
Tulio would have sent off a really SMS to this number.
Since we're using test credentials that we got from TWILIO for free,
it's just telling us that there was no air and had this been production,
the SMS would have sent for real.
If you do go to twilio and get credentials of your own,
go ahead and place them here for your staging credentials and for your production
credentials placed him down there.
All right,
so I'm just going to get rid of this since it's working.
Kill server.
And now we have a library that can send SMS so we can move on to the next lecture.